Well, I don't know what you call him, an alcoholic
or not. He got drunk a lot, at least what I consider.
So he had to be relieved, in other words. Yeah, he
was moved out. Now, you say that you had bombers and
fighters, a warning system.
What was the size of each one of these wings that
you... How many bombers did you have? How many
fighters? How many men did you have? Well, the 38th
Bomb Group was a B-26 outfit. It was located at
Tama, Japan and it also had a 25th Type Recco
squadron and oh I'd probably estimate that it had
maybe about 30 B-26's and oh say 400 officers and
men. Eighth Fighter Group over at the Shia was a
P-51 outfit and it had three squadrons of P-51s and
probably 15 airplanes each squadron. And the
347th Fighter Interceptor Group was F-61s and
they were located at Izuku and that was just a
squadron. And then your Air Command and And the
warning group was scattered at various radar
sites throughout the area, and I would say maybe
100 people at each one. All together, I would say
probably about 5,000 people. 5,000 people that
you commanded? I would say 5,000, maybe not that
much. Or I would say around 2,500 maybe. Oh, okay,
2,500. Yeah. All right. And what was your aim? What
was the aim? Well, what were you there for? You were
in the war. Obviously, occupation, you didn't
have to keep the Japanese people down, according
to your description of them. Why were you there?
What was your mission? Well, to occupy Japan,
actually. And you had your air command and warning
group set up so that any aircraft from Russia or
China, you would intercept. But most of it was the
control of airplanes over Japan. I mean, you owned
airplanes. They were Japan's air defense though.
Air defense, yeah. They were completely cut out.
You had, see we had two 315's and then you had the
314's. One of them had the northern part of Japan
and the other one had the southern part of Japan.
And those were the two air defense systems in
Japan? Yeah, and they were composite wings.
Then you had a troop carrier group and
troop carrier outfits and then you had an air
Materiel Command. That consisted of the 5th Air
Force. Okay. Now, during this period you had a
shift
from friendship with the Soviet Union,
1944-1945, to
unfriendly relations, enemies with the Soviet
Union. by about 1947, 1948. You also have the
Chinese Civil War in which the Communists won. Did
you, what was the impact of this rising Cold War on
the military in Japan?
Well, other than being more alert, I don't think it
had any impact. You weren't increased in size.
Every once in a while you had an alert of an
unidentified object. And sometimes you never
knew what it was. And other times you decided it was
a weather phenomenon that you were able to look
over a mountain range and see moving boats or ships
or something of this sort. But I don't... I think
the biggest problem we had then was just training
and getting the combat organizations that we had
up to combat status. After all the pilots, all the
experienced pilots and all the military
experienced enlistment, we went home getting
back into flying again. Okay, so your basic
function then was to keep these units prepared in
the case. Yeah. Okay, did you, on the island of
Japan, did you have nuclear capabilities? Did you
have American atomic bombs?
I don't think so. No, I don't question it at that
time. They were all, I'm sure, they were kept back
on Guam. And we didn't have any airplanes that were
capable of carrying a nuclear bomb. There's
no reason to take atomic bombs into Japan. So back
on Guam the B-52s or the B-29s
at that time and a little bit later the B-36s and
then? Those were the ones that were, our nuclear
defense then was on the island of Guam and you never
had those large bombers in Japan. Why didn't you
have those large bombers in Japan? Well there's no
place to put them really. You didn't have an
airport large enough? Well the airfields that
Japanese built just weren't built for those big
airplanes.
And I don't think that, I don't think we ever had any
B-29 stationed in Japan. Now we had one or two that
passed through there that landed at, we built an
airport at Tachikawa and they had some record that
they flew one of them back to the states and that
they were trying to establish, which they did
establish a record, a long range record. but they
just weren't stationed there. So we had B-25s,
A-26s, B-26s and P-51s
and that type of airplane. This is your first
overseas assignment except for the time that you
went to England and that really wasn't a permanent
assignment. What were your impressions of being
in the Air Force overseas?
It really didn't make any difference where we
were. I went in the 11th of September of 45 and then
moved into Johnson and then Lois and the two girls
joined me in August of 46. And they brought an old
automobile over, brought a 1940 Buick over.
and we drove it all over Japan and it was really
pretty nice when I was commanded 350 there
division why I had a railroad car that I could have
the Japanese hook on the rear of any train go
anywhere in Japan. Really? Oh yeah, oh yeah. And we
had opportunity to visit the many of the hot
springs of Japan, the big hotels that the military
had taken over as arrest hotels. And we had, well
when I arrived in Japan, a Japanese assigned to me a
Japanese soldier as my valet. Oh yeah. Could he
translate also? Well, he couldn't translate. He
could speak a little English, but he learned
English. Then when Lois and the girls arrived over
there, we were assigned two more
girls, a housekeeper and a housemaid. In fact, you
could get as many servants as you could fit. Oh
really? Oh yeah. And the Japanese government paid
for it. Yeah, we had a cook who was a cook on one of the
big luxury liners that was owned on one of the
Japanese luxury liners before the war. So his food
was good. His food was good. He was really good. And
he just cooked for you or for other families? Oh, he
just cooked for us. Oh, wow. And so we had One house
boy, one cook, and two house maids. I mean, a
housekeeper and a nurse maid, whatever you call
them. Did junior grade officers also get
servants? Well, they may not have gotten as many.
They got as many as they wanted to feed, actually.
The Japanese were anxious to get more people out of
the hungry line. Mm-hmm. I see, yeah. So this
Japanese
boy, before it all started, he washed all your
clothes, and cleaned and pressed your trousers,
cleaned your room, made your bed, and took care of
you in general.
He stayed with us the whole time. Now did you live on
the base or did you live off the base? Well in
Johnson, when I was in the 5th Bomber Command, I
lived on base. We had a Quonset hut
that you built yourself. This lady said here's
some Quonset huts. If you want to build a house for
you and your family, have at it and they give you an
area where you can build it. So you got yourself
some Japanese workers and you built yourself a
house. And of course they were real good at ceramic
tile and this type of thing. And then opening down
at Nagare where we lived in a great big Japanese
mansion off base. And then down in Izuzuki we lived
on base. But down there you had a, by that time you
had housing that was built to American
specifications on base. And you had commanders
going on the quarters that was built. But no, that
tour was real. real nice really. And you visited
most all of the hot spots. The Army took over most of
the golf courses and
of course we went looking one day, when we were down
at Izuki, we went looking for
a Methodist orphan's home, and we ended up in a
Catholic orphan's home that the French nuns were
running, and the French nuns couldn't go home. All
the U.S. nuns were evacuated, but the French, once
they leave France, why they stayed in Japan. Now we
had a little So they couldn't go home during the
war. They couldn't go home during the war at all. So
they were still there and they were in bad, bad
shape. You mean as far as supplies? Yeah, food,
supplies. They'd be able to raise money and
because Japan was real poor and we would take them a
lot of food that we'd collect and kind of adopted
them as And it was real interesting. It made you
feel good. I betcha.
So you had a good tour then in Japan. Oh yeah, that
was a real good tour. And you could buy things real
cheap. You buy big plates that are a couple of
dollars a piece. Probably worth two or three or
four hundred dollars the second time we went over
there. Then you came back to the States. Let's move
back here. Command of the United States Air Force
Security Service 1949 to 1951. Tell
me about that. Well see when I came back from Japan I
went to the Air War College at Maxwell and I spent a
year there. Oh that's right. And that was,
I think we had about 100 Air Force officers, Air
Force, Navy, and Marine, and Army officers going
through there. And it was... What was that
instituted? Was that first instituted about that
time? Oh, I would say I was about the third class, or
third or fourth class. And it was Well it was kind of
an executive development type of program. I would
think so. Probably a fairly elite assignment
wasn't it? Yeah, in fact only about 2% of the
officers in the Air Force ever get to attend it. Oh
really? Well how can you account for the fact that
you got to attend it? Well I don't know, I guess I had
a good record. And did you apply for it? No, but I was
Where I just happened to hit it probably at the
right time. I was coming back from overseas and had
a good time to go to school.
What kind of classes did they have? Can you compare
it to the way they ran West Plain? No, this was a pure
and simple, an executive type of relaxing thing.
You had seminars that you did a lot of talking back
and forth on and you played golf. and your wives had
courses in how to be a good Air Force wife. Really?
Oh yeah. What did they tell her? Well, you had to
support your husband in his career and Air
Force etiquette.
and all this type of thing. I mean it's more of a
course of supporting the officers wives club, the
NCO wives club and the airmen wives club and all
this stuff and the social services that you,
special services that you get into, family
services. for new families coming on base, this
type of thing. I wonder if in this day of woman's
liberation they'd still have a course like that
for the wives at the Aramore College. I don't know.
I think they are because I think our daughter is
involved in a briefing as to what their
responsibilities are and their learning program
is while her husband's at this school. Now tell me
tell me what uh what type of classes you had? Well a
lot of it was uh was uh strategy uh type of thing
another one was communications how to how to
communicate uh
up and down within an organization a lot of
management type of uh top management type of
programs,
human relations, responsibilities between the
Air Force and the civilian community, how to keep
that and joining the Chamber of Commerce and your
various clubs that you have. and have a volunteer
speaker's toastmaster type of organization on
base so you can go out and tell them what the Air
Force is doing. This type of thing. Community
relations? Community relations type of thing.
How about courses on leadership? Yeah, well you
had, I can't remember specifically about any, but
all of this, on human relations, senior media,
personnel management, type of thing. And you had
real outstanding lecturers. You had
people like the president of General Motors or
top executives in the industry would come down and
talk to you about
about personnel programs or executive programs
or
what it takes to be a leader type of thing. A lot of it
was just
a talk program. Communication, the ability to
communicate with others? Yes.
Did they give you grades? No. Did they have
assignments? Yeah, they have assignments. Well
during each phase you would have an outline of
reading that you had to do and like Eisenhower
White House, it may not have been at that
particular, that's either National War College
or there, but there was a long article in either
Fortune or I think it was in Fortune which had on
Eisenhower's White House. organize the White
House, and how you use the staff, and things of this
sort. What about courses on politics? How to get
along with politicians for future generals,
anything like that? Oh, I think you probably have a
lot of that. Some of it, I don't remember exactly.
I'm sure I have a curriculum out in my file, but I
don't exactly remember. How large was each class?
Or you had about 10 or 15 in each class and then you
stayed with them maybe two weeks and during that
two weeks you had a seminar party at somebody's
house where everybody brought
either dessert or meat or vegetables or what have
you. So you got to know everybody in your seminar
real well. How many total students were at the War
College? Well, I think it was about a hundred at the
time. And it was a one-year course? Well, yeah, she
graduated 27th of June and you started out the
latter part of August. I see. Do you think, overall
now, thinking back on and thinking of your career,
was it worthwhile Did you actually learn things
about it? Well, I would say you think at the time
that had you attended the War College before you
were commander of the 315th, that you could have
run the 315th Air Division a lot better. I see.
Because it gave you a lot better insight on how to
handle people. Yeah, sure. management, things
that you're going to be doing.
Yeah. Okay, let's shift now then to the commander
of the United States Air Force Security Service.
Can you tell me about that? Well, when I graduated
from the Air War College, I really volunteered to
go to Washington to be in personnel. I figured that
there was a lot to be desired in personnel I figured
that during my whole career, I don't think I got my
first choice or even second choice as to what I
wanted to do or where I wanted to be. And I figured
that at least we should be able to hit it 50% of the
time. But because I hadn't had any personnel
experience, I got assigned to the Air Force
Security Service. Well, the Air Force Security
Service was just being organized at the time. And I
didn't, when I inquired around when I got my orders
as to what the airport security service was all
about, why no one in the class knew anything about
it. So I flew down to Brooks Field here in San
Antonio to make a survey. Well, it was such a super
secret organization why they wouldn't even let me
in. Really?
It was so secret that they wouldn't let you in, and
you were destined to become the commander? Well,
the thing about it, they didn't know that at that
time. They hadn't seen any orders or anything. And
you're supposed to have a clearance. You're
supposed to have a background in investigation.
And you didn't have a top secret security
clearance? I'd been involved in a lot of top secret
office, but at that time they didn't know my status
and therefore they wouldn't let me in. So I came
down and took command, well they had a Colonel Lynn
who was a commander then and I took command about
four days after I got here and he was transferred up
to Washington. and it was a small outfit and then
that was again a building program
of establishing intercept stations worldwide.
Intercept for what? Intercom in error? Intercept
stations of anything that's radio, on the radio,
on radio, you intercepted and tried to read
everybody else's mail. Right. So, and Why do you
think this was established, Air Force Security
Service? Well, when we, see we had, where you have
the, right at the time, you had the Army, and the
Navy had an organization such as this, and when we
separated, then the Army gave up some experienced
people, and so the Air Force formed a security
service. So each organization has its own
intercept, and it's quite important when you're
up close to the enemy lines to be able to intercept
any direction
that you have on guns, on their artillery, or
anything of that sort.
So it's basically
that type of organization. Did you have any
relations with the CIA, which was established in
1947? I mean, it sounds like you're doing some of
the same things that they're doing. Well, the CIA,
we put a lot of information in the CIA, and also the
Army and the Navy. And yeah, I had a lot of, as
Commander of the Security Service, I was on the
National Security Intelligence Committee. and
which the director of CIA, I believe, was the
chairman of that type of thing.
It was really pretty well coordinated.
There
was a lot of jealousy between the CIA and its
ability to produce intelligence vis-a-vis the
military intelligence field. Oh, really? Well,
it's always been that way. A lot of rivalry? A lot of
rivalry. Which one does a better job, the military
or the CIA? They're really different fields,
actually. Could you explain? No, I don't know. I
don't think I can.
Well, the civilians and the military
intelligence and the civilians and CIA are big
competitors of production of intelligence. and
who's right and who's wrong when they produce a
piece of intelligence.
But that was a very interesting command. Again,
you were building and that was my specialty and I
moved from there up to Deputy Director, National
Security Agency. So, you have two jobs right in a
row from 1949 to 1951, then from 1951 to 1953 that
deals with intelligence and security. Yeah.
Well, see, I was in communications. Sure. That's
why you were chosen, because you were in
communications. Is that what you think? Yeah,
well,
most of all of the what you did there was intercept
radio signals. And that was, and the National
Security, well that deputy director was a job of
which I was pretty well bored at, because you
really, it was a staff job of which you was
responsible for keeping the Air Force informed as
to what was going on in the National Security
Agency. and wanted to be sure that they got all of
the intelligence that was produced.
But you really didn't have any command
responsibility. And
you'd been a commander before, so this is... So I
got quite bored there, and that's when I, it was
during this time that I got my master's degree in
business administration. Okay, we're going to
talk about that in a minute. Let's talk about the
relations that you had with the CIA and the
National Security Agency. How did you work with
those people? Well, we provided them with all our
products, and then of course they, I presume,
you know, had all the other sort of, numerous other
sources of intelligence, and they, their
responsibility was to tie them all together, to be
sure that the stuff that their agents picked up
by...